{"url": "https://chattermill.com/", "final_url": "https://chattermill.com/", "status": 200, "retrieved_at": "2026-09-19T02:12:26.333878+00:00", "sha256": "9bfd620bf51c0588f5d50eb22e4d1b84359f6487b1dcb66fcf12f5ad47f0a461"}

Chattermill: Customer Intelligence & Voice of Customer Platform
Platform
PLATFORM
Platform Overview
How Chattermill works
Integrations
Unify feedback across every source
Insights Engine: Lyra AI
Analyze feedback with AI
XLG Acceleration
Connect CX to business outcomes
Security & Privacy
Protect customer data
AGENTS
Lyra Agent
Agentic AI for customer feedback
Proactive Insights
An agent that's proactive by design
Why Lyra Agent
See what makes Lyra Agent perform best
MCP & Skills
Connect to your AI agents
Agentic CXI Architecture
Infrastructure for agentic work
ANALYTICS
Precision Insights
Identify precise issues
Impact Analysis
Understand impact on your metrics
Reports & Dashboards
Collaborate across teams
Anomaly Detection
Trigger alerts
Workflows & Automations
Share insights with the right people
See Chattermill in action
Take a product tour
Customer Stories
CUSTOMER STORIES
Uber
400+ users, 8 year partnership
HelloFresh
30% increase in average order values
Qonto
80+ hours of manual work saved
E.On Next
144% increase in NPS
All customer stories →
FEATURED CUSTOMER STORIES
How Uber scaled CX intelligence with Chattermill over 8 years
Read more →
How HelloFresh increased average order values by 30% using feedback insights
Read more →
Resources
GUIDES
Guides & Playbooks
Explore CX intelligence trends, expert insights, and industry best practices.
BLOG
Chattermill
Blog
Explore CX & Product strategies, market trends and latest product insights.
CX INTELLIGENCE ACADEMY
CX Intelligence Academy
Get certified and become an expert in how to prove the value of CX for the business.
MORE
Help Center
API Docs
Book a demo
Sign in
Sign in
Book a demo
Meet Lyra Agent, the AI agent for customer feedback analysis, built to think like a seasoned analyst.
Learn more
AI-Native Customer Intelligence & Voice of Customer platform
CX intelligence and context for teams and agents
Book a demo
Chattermill unifies all your siloed feedback in one platform, surfaces emerging issues before they escalate, and delivers customer insights straight to your teams and AI agents.
Agent
Data
Intelligence
Program
Analyze customer feedback with an AI agent for CX
Ask a question and get analyst-quality answers, backed by quantified evidence, built-in charts and reports, and direct access to customer quotes.
Learn more
Get proactive insights, delivered on autopilot
Get agentic customer insights delivered automatically to your team. Lyra Agent scans and analyzes your feedback, turning raw text into prioritized signals.
Learn more
Bring customer intelligence into your AI agents
Plug verified CX intelligence straight into the AI agents you already use. Query Chattermill data and get reliable insights, instantly.
Learn more
Give your agents a trusted foundation to work from
Connect any agent to our CXI agentic architecture for accuracy and reliability. Purpose-built by leading CX experts.
Learn more
Lyra Agent
Proactive Insights
MCP & Skills
Agentic Infrastructure
Consolidate all your feedback in one powerful platform
Centralize feedback from every single channel. Get a unified view of your entire customer experience and understand the voice of the customer.
Learn more
Bring structure and clarity at scale
Organize your feedback with new levels of precision. Work with AI models that tag and categorize every signal.
Learn more
Add context to every customer signal
Enrich each signal with context – customer ID, channel, location, and more.
Learn more
Get enterprise-grade security
Built for reliability and trust. Designed to meet the world's highest standards in data protection.
Learn more
Integrations
Taxonomy
Data Enrichment
Security & Privacy
Surface AI-powered insights across every touchpoint
See how Lyra AI turns raw feedback from any channel into insights you can trust, at scale.
Learn more
Get a clear view of every customer issue
Spot precise problems so you know what to fix, and why.
Learn more
Know the big drivers and opportunities
Identify what's driving your key metrics. Understand why they move up or down.
Learn more
Go directly from insights to action
Create custom reports with advanced filters and visualizations. Add them to dashboards built for every use case.
Learn more
Spot critical issues as they emerge
Make sure no issues go undetected. Get real-time alerts routed to Slack, email, Jira and more.
Learn more
Lyra AI
Precision Insights
Impact Analysis
Reports & Dashboards
Anomaly Detection
Track the impact of CX on retention, churn, and revenue
Work with a dedicated team of experts to link customer signals directly to business outcomes.
Learn more
XLG Acceleration
Trusted every day by world-leading enterprises to understand their customers at scale
AGENTIC AI FOR CX
AI agent for customer feedback analysis
Meet Lyra – the AI agent thinks and acts like a specialist CX analyst. It automates customer feedback analysis and voice of customer insights, and provides quality answers, backed by real customer quotes.
Learn more
AI agent for CX
Bring agentic insights into your workflow with an agent that surfaces feedback trends and signals, and turns them into answers you can act on.
Answers any question
Diagnose NPS or CSAT shifts, spot churn signals, and understand why customers return products — Lyra Agent has the context to answer it all.
Proactive customer insights
Lyra Agent monitors your voice of customer data, automatically surfacing what you weren't looking for — spikes, bugs, big opportunities.
AI TECHNOLOGY
Proprietary AI technology, purpose-built for CX
Most AI models are generalists, not specialists. Lyra, our proprietary AI model, is different - trained specifically for customer experience intelligence.
Built for strategic & precision insights
AI that sees the big picture and the finest detail — from high-level trends to precise root causes hiding beneath them.
Powered by AI agents
Our flexible, modular tech stack is built for the agentic era — ready for your team and your agents.
Contextually intelligent
Every feedback signal, layered with your CRM, ops, transactional, and competitive data — so every insight reflects the full context of your business.
Learn more
MCP & SKILLS
Ask any question, get analyst-quality answers
Plug verified CX intelligence straight into the AI agents you already use via MCP. Chattermill feeds your agents with quantified customer feedback, so every answer they give you is steeped in fact, and years of expertise.
Learn more
Connects with any agent
Works with Claude, ChatGPT, and any MCP-compatible agent.
Answers you can trust
Pull from robust data that's instantly-verifiable through customer quotes.
Master-crafted skills
Ensure every analysis your agent runs is accurate, reliable, and top-tier.
Streamlined tech stack
Create Linear tickets, Notion docs, or slides enriched with customer intelligence.
Secure by design
Rely on technology that meets the highest standards in data protection and information security.
CXI AGENTIC ARCHITECTURE
Designed for better insights and agentic work
Specifically engineered for feedback analysis, Chattermill is optimized at every layer for accuracy, trust, and reliability. It’s the foundation AI agents need to get it right, every time.
Learn more
Chattermill Agentic CX Intelligence Architecture
Data Layer
Surveys
Reviews
Contact Center
Support
Social
Business Context
AI Insights Engine
CX Context Engine
Purpose Tuned LLMs
Frontier LLMs for open-ended reasoning, and fine-tuned specialist models for precision tasks.
Strategic & Precision Insights
Strategic insights track trends, precision insights pinpoint specific issues.
CX Analytical Engine
Every signal, structured into intelligence agents can act on.
Workflows & Alerting
Triggered reports and dashboards, anomaly detection, real-time alerting.
Insight Governance
Ensures the highest accuracy, precision, and reliability of every insight.
Skills & Evals
A skills library teaching agents how to use the insights engine, evaluated continuously.
Knowledge & Memory
Coming Soon
A knowledge layer agents consult automatically, with a memory system built on top.
Governance
Multi-layer controls across the agentic stack — so every output can be trusted.
Collaboration & Audit
Coming Soon
All activity logged — data access, configuration changes, user actions.
CX Context Graph
Coming Soon
A structured, queryable record of every insight path an organization produces, helping agents get smarter.
Agent Layer
AI Agents
Lyra Agent
A Chattermill-native agent, purpose-built for CX
intelligence workflows.
Custom Agents
Teams
Purpose-built for AI-native teams
We don’t just power CX teams. Our world-class platform gives every team across the business one trusted view of your entire customer experience.
CX
Product & UX
Insights & VoC
Customer Support
“Chattermill’s impact permeates all levels of the company. It plays a crucial role in shaping UX decisions, payment method launches, and feature introductions.”
Renata Vasconcellos de Sa
Group Product Ops Lead
See more customer stories
"The return on investment with Chattermill is exceptional. It’s incredibly cost-effective compared to the resources and effort required to achieve the same results manually."
James McGhee
Director of CX
See more customer stories
"With Chattermill, we took a more proactive approach to customer feedback, fixing recurring issues. As a result, complaints have decreased and our NPS score has risen. We have seen significant increases in retention and customer lifetime value.”
Megan Wood
Head of Customer Performance
See more customer stories
"The return on investment has been pretty immediate, and it's been pretty obvious. Our NPS went from plus 9 last year to plus 22 this year, which is an incredible 144% increase.”
Abdul Khaled
Head of Customer Experience & Digital Products
See more customer stories
USE CASES
Intelligence shaped around your business
Chattermill connects customer signals to business outcomes, telling you precisely what’s driving your metrics, retention and revenue.
NPS & CSAT intelligence
What's driving our NPS & CSAT up or down?
What will boost our NPS & CSAT?
What's the ROI of improving our scores?
Digital experience intelligence
What defects are trending within our product or app?
How are customers reacting to the new feature?
What are quick wins to improve digital experience?
Retention intelligence
Which customers are at risk of switching brands?
What are the leading indicators of churn?
Are retention and win-back efforts working?
Frontline intelligence
Which agents, teams, or centers are outperforming?
What agent behaviors drive positive or negative CSAT?
What can we shift to self-serve?
Customer contacts intelligence
Why do people contact us?
Which issues take the longest to resolve?
What can we deflect to self-serve, chatbot, or FAQs?
Product returns intelligence
Why do customers return products?
What do customers think of our returns policy?
Which carriers get the most complaints?
Competitive intelligence
What are competitors doing better than us?
Do they have any product or service gaps?
How do we benchmark on value, ease of use, or customer service?
Acquisition intelligence
Where are we losing customers in the funnel — and why?
What's causing the most friction at sign-up?
What quick fixes would boost conversion?
NPS & CSAT
Digital Experience
Retention
Frontline
Contact Reasons
Product Returns
Competitors
Acquisition
OUR CUSTOMERS
How teams like yours are seeing real success
See how world-leading teams use Chattermill to cut through the noise and spot their biggest opportunities — delivering results their CEOs actually care about.
Learn more
TRAVEL & TRANSPORTATION
400+
users enabled across CX, Product & Operations
Read more
UTILITIES
144%
increase in NPS
Read more
CONSUMER SERVICES
42.8%
decrease in contacts per transaction
Read more
XLG ACCELERATION
A true partner with deep domain expertise.
The most sophisticated technology still requires human expertise to translate into business outcomes.
We partner with you to turn customer signals into business decisions, operating changes, and financial outcomes — with deep domain expertise, proven frameworks, and the education to make it stick.
Learn more
01
Feature one
01
Collect
Gather signals from surveys, calls, chats, reviews, social media, and more.
02
Feature two
02
Understand
Answer your most critical business questions.
03
Feature three
03
Act
Know where to invest with high-impact insights.
04
Feature four
04
Measure
Track against lead metrics and experience benchmarks.
05
Feature four
05
Prove ROI
Connect directly to revenue, retention, and churn.
XLG ACCELERATION
Connecting customer feedback to real business outcomes takes exceptional tech, coupled with deep domain expertise. Work with a dedicated team that’s fully committed to getting you results.
Step 1
Collect
Gather signals from surveys, calls, chats, reviews, social media, and more.
Read More
Step 2
Understand
Answer your most critical business questions.
Read More
Step 3
Act
Know where to invest with high-impact insights.
Read More
Step 4
Measure
Track against lead metrics and experience benchmarks.
Read More
Step 5
Prove ROI
Connect directly to revenue, retention, and churn.
Read More
SECURITY & COMPLIANCE
Enterprise-grade platform built for trust
Enterprise-ready by design. Manage multiple teams, control access, and ensure PII compliance within an interface built for the modern enterprise organization.
Learn more
SOC 2 Type II
GDPR & CCPA COMPLIANCE
ISO 27001 CERTIFIED
SSO
ACCESS CONTROLS
PII REDACTION
Integrations
All your feedback data in one place
Easily integrate with any feedback channel and data source to get a unified view of your customers.
View all integrations
CX intelligence, AI by design
Book a demo
Frequently asked questions
What is Chattermill?
Chattermill is the AI-native CX intelligence and Voice of Customer platform that helps you unify and analyze feedback across every channel including surveys, online reviews, social media, support conversations, and voice calls.
Using powerful AI analytics, Chattermill extract insights from unstructured text feedback to uncover clear, actionable insights that can drive smarter decisions across your business.
From identifying pain points to spotting emerging trends and improving loyalty, Chattermill gives your teams the clarity and insights you need to guide strategic decisions, improve products and services, and increase customer satisfaction.
Who is Chattermill for?
Chattermill is built for CX-focused teams that want to go beyond surface-level metrics and truly understand their customers. It helps:
Customer Experience and Voice of Customer teams pinpoint what's impacting satisfaction and loyalty
Product and UX teams prioritize improvements based on real customer needs
Support and Operations teams identify recurring issues before they escalate
Whether you're a fast-growing brand or an established enterprise, Chattermill makes it easy to align your entire organization around what matters most to customers.
Can Chattermill integrate with Claude, ChatGPT, Jira, Linear, Notion and other tools?
Yes. Chattermill connects to AI assistants, support platforms, CRMs, ticketing systems, and feedback channels through 50+ native integrations and an MCP server.
What teams do with it:
Query feedback from Claude, ChatGPT, or any AI agent via Chattermill MCP
Get Slack alerts when NPS drops, sentiment shifts, or a theme spikes
Turn top issues into Jira tickets with the customer quotes attached
Pull Salesforce or other CRM data in so feedback sits next to account, deal, and segment context
Connect feedback from Zendesk, Intercom, Qualtrics, Trustpilot, surveys, reviews, and call transcripts
If a tool's missing, the API, MCP or a secure data feed handles the rest.
Can I integrate Chattermill with my current stack?
Chattermill lets you integrate and analyze feedback from various sources like survey tools, online review sites, social media, and customer service platforms (including support calls).
You can check out the full list of integrations
here
.
We can also integrate with any custom data source through our API or a secure data upload, so if you're looking to connect your favorite tools, just reach out – we'd love to help!
Who isn't Chattermill a good fit for?
You are looking for a feedback collection tool to send out surveys
You're not consistently collecting more than 5,000 pieces of customer feedback every month
You are a student, higher education institution or are looking for one-off analysis
You're only looking for basic survey tools, not deep customer experience insights
Chattermill empowers CX, Product, and Insights teams to unify and analyze customer feedback at scale—from surveys, support tickets, reviews, and more—using AI to uncover what truly drives customer satisfaction and churn.
Most customer-centric organizations benefit from our platform, but if you're not actively collecting or acting on feedback, Chattermill might not be the right fit, and we wouldn't want to waste your time.
Do you charge extra for additional users?
We believe that customer feedback insights should be available to everyone in any organization so we do not charge a per user fee - you can add as many users as you need.
Does Chattermill comply with GDPR and CCPA?
Yes, Chattermill is fully compliant with GDPR and CCPA regulations, ensuring that all personal data is handled securely and responsibly.
We are also SOC2 Type II and ISO 27001:2022 certified, meeting the highest security and confidentiality standards.
You can read more about our approach to data and security on our
Trust Center
.
What makes Chattermill different?
Most tools give you data. Chattermill gives you clear customer understanding at the click of a button.
Instead of siloed dashboards or superficial insights, Chattermill brings all your customer data into one place - and applies deep AI-powered analysis to reveal the "why" behind the numbers.
Our cutting-edge
Lyra AI
delivers strategic and precision insights with unmatched accuracy and precision.
We also work with you to link insights to your business goals, train your teams on CX best practices, and give you ongoing access to a network of CX and VoC experts at your disposal.
Chattermill is the single source of customer truth for businesses who want to turn every piece of feedback into insights that can influence their most important metrics.
PLATFORM
Platform Overview
Product Tour
Integrations
Insights Engine: Lyra AI
Security & Privacy
ANALYTICS
Precision Insights
Impact Analysis
Reports & Dashboards
Anomaly Detection
Workflows & Automations
AGENTS
Lyra Agent
Proactive Insights
Why Lyra Agent
MCP & Skills
Agentic CXI Architecture
CUSTOMERS
Uber
HelloFresh
Qonto
E.ON Next
Customer Stories
COMPARISONS
Alternatives
Chattermill vs Thematic
Chattermill vs Enterpret
Chattermill vs Unwrap
Chattermill vs Caplena
Chattermill vs TextiQ
Chattermill vs Medallia
Chattermill vs UnitQ
Chattermill vs Qualtrics
RESOURCES
Customer Stories
Chattermill Blog
CX Intelligence Academy
Help Center
API Docs
AI Labs
COMPANY
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Security
Trust Center
Chattermill Analytics Limited
68 Hanbury St, London, E1 5JL,
United Kingdom
© Chattermill 2015-2026 All Rights Reserved
Terms and conditions
Cookies
Privacy Policy
Legal