{"url": "https://getthematic.com/", "final_url": "https://getthematic.com/", "status": 200, "retrieved_at": "2026-09-19T02:12:26.395743+00:00", "sha256": "42888be32d64ed07f40af0473d35b2c15adcd346d93d7b69f2ce53d03e68d228"}

The Customer Intelligence Layer for CX | Thematic
Skip to main content
Free master session
Claude in Action for CX professionals. Join Alyona on September 17.
Save your seat
Platform
Solutions
Case Studies
Pricing
Resources
Book a Demo
Login
Capabilities
Unify Feedback with Lenses
Integrate sources into one view
Themes and Taxonomy
Themes that emerge from the feedback
Answers
Ask anything, get a traceable answer
Impact Analysis
Find what actually moves your metrics
Scoring Agent
CX metrics without waiting on surveys
Workflows
Route insight to the teams who act
AI Tools (MCP)
Access from Copilot, Claude, ChatGPT
The Platform
Platform Overview
How Thematic works, end to end
Human-in-the-Loop AI
AI you can inspect and steer
Security and Data Governance
Enterprise controls, PII, compliance
Services
Reporting Service
Your recurring reports, done for you
Partnership Program
Technology, reseller and referral partners
See Thematic AI in action:
Watch our demo videos now
Watch Demo
Customer Experience
From signal to CX action
Voice of Customer
The intelligence layer for VoC programs
Research and Insights
Scale research without losing rigour
Voice of Employee
Scale employee listening
What Voice of Customer Teams Need to Know About the Modern Data Stack
Unify feedback, drive action, and scale impact across the entire organization.
Read the modern data stack guide
Read case studies:
Discover how leading companies achieve success with Thematic AI.
Read Case Studies
Read and Watch
Insights
CX and research articles
Guides and Playbooks
Downloadable frameworks and templates
Demo Videos
Short product walkthroughs
Events
Where to find us
Learn and Support
CX Intelligence Course
Become the person who proves CX value
Help Center
Product documentation
Masterclasses
Live and on-demand training
From Ignored to Indispensable: The Proven, Step-by-Step CX Insights Mastery Blueprint in < 6 Days!
543% ROI.
Learn why Thematic is a worthy investment in Forrester's™ TEI report.
Get the Report
Platform
Solutions
Case Studies
Pricing
Resources
Book a Demo
Login
Enterprise Customer Intelligence
The feedback is in your CX suite.
The answer isn't.
Thematic is the intelligence layer your CX suite was missing. One defensible source of customer truth for your team and AI agents across every channel. No rip and replace.
Ask
Answers
Score change
Revenue at risk
Deep Dive
App reviews knew five weeks earlier
Tariffs come up in
2,859
comments this quarter, up 74% on Q2, and the complaint is rarely the price itself.
Customers accept the increase but not the way it appeared. The largest granular theme is
tariff increase not explained at checkout
, followed by
no notice before the increase took effect
. A smaller and angrier group say the
tariff was applied to items marked exempt
, and those are the comments asking for refunds.
App review signal
Exempt-item complaints appeared in store reviews five weeks before the first support ticket. Your survey saw
12%
of the tariff theme.
Themes
38,213 responses across 4 sources
Tickets
Calls
App reviews
CX suite survey
Tariff increase not explained at checkout
1,284
No notice before the increase took effect
962
Tariff applied to items marked exempt
613
67
-3.1
-2.4
-1.9
+0.8
+0.4
+0.2
61
Q2
Tariff not
explained
Basket
resets
Support
wait
Exempt items
fixed
Returns
window
Delivery
ETA
Q3
Attributed across all four sources, not the survey alone
Enterprise ARR at risk
18%
$4.2M of $23.4M, across 11 of 41 accounts
Granular themes driving it
Joined to account revenue, evidence pooled from every channel
Tariff increase not explained
$1.6M
Basket resets at payment
$1.1M
Support wait over 10 min
$0.8M
Exempt items misapplied
$0.5M
Deep Dive
Tariff increase not explained
No line item shown for the tariff
78% negative
The total moves but nothing explains why
Customers hunt the receipt for a breakdown
Highest complaint rate on orders under $80
Support ticket
+412
“There is no line for it anywhere, the number just went up.”
Total changes between cart and payment
74% negative
Price shown at cart differs at the payment step
Read as a bait and switch, not a tariff
Drives the most abandoned baskets of any cluster
App review
+318
“Cart said one price, checkout said another. I closed the tab.”
Read as a hidden fee, not a tariff
71% negative
Customers do not connect it to import costs
Several assumed it was a service charge
Trust language appears in most of these comments
Call transcript
+264
“I assumed you were sneaking in a fee. Nobody said tariff.”
Exempt items charged anyway
69% negative
Applied to categories marked exempt at checkout
These are the comments asking for refunds
Concentrated in two product categories
CX suite survey
+187
“Books are exempt and I was still charged the surcharge.”
Advance notice defused it
63% positive
Customers told before the change rarely complained
Same increase, completely different tone
Several said the warning was the reason they stayed
Call transcript
+143
“You emailed me a week before, so it was not a surprise.”
App review signal
App reviews knew five weeks earlier
Exempt-item complaints appeared in store reviews five weeks before the first support ticket. Your survey saw
12%
of the tariff theme.
The Problem
You need decision-ready insights.
Instead you have data gymnastics.
Most taxonomies are already out of date
Your CX platform promised insights out of the box. Instead you got static taxonomies that drift. Black-box AI you can't defend. A different customer story in every channel. Thematic fixes the foundation. One source of truth, every theme traceable to the raw comments behind it.
You're still manually reworking data and reports
Every cycle starts with validation. Reconciling outputs, checking whether themes still reflect reality.
Analysts spend their best hours on the data
before a single insight reaches a decision-maker.
Every AI agent reads the customer differently
Your team is prompting differently. Product's version of the customer story doesn't match CX's.
Each tool trained on a different slice
, making the inconsistency worse at scale.
The Thematic Difference
Thematic solves what your existing CX suite
fails to deliver.
One trusted view of your customer
, built from the bottom up across every channel.
Every team sees the insight that matters to them
, tied to the metrics that matter to the business.
Each team knows what to act on, and when
. Whether that's support closing the loop with a customer today, or product changing a feature next quarter.
The intelligence layer your AI agents can trust.
Use Thematic agents to prioritize action, or deploy your own agents knowing their actions are based on the same customer truth. Not six different interpretations of it.
Works alongside your existing stack
Up and running in days, not quarters
No taxonomy rebuilds required
Professional services dependency ends
Dedicated specialist support from day one
Enterprise security and compliance built in
How Thematic works
From raw feedback to
confident action.
In five steps.
Step 01 — Ingest
Connect all customer data sources.
Surveys, support tickets, call center transcripts, app reviews, CRM notes. Directly from your existing systems or data warehouse. PII redaction and language translation built in. Privacy preserved, global analysis enabled. SOC 2 Type II certified. Every source in one place.
Read more about data integrations.
Step 02 — Unify
One consistent layer. Across every source.
Not channel-by-channel analysis. One view, structured around how each team actually works. Role-based access and audit controls built in by design. Product sees feature friction. Operations sees service failures. CX sees the full picture. Same underlying data. Tailored to each team's needs. No more conflicting versions of the customer story.
Learn more about data unification.
Step 03 — Understand
Themes built from what customers actually said.
Not a predefined taxonomy. The Thematic Theming Agent surfaces what's present in customer language, including what's emerging before it becomes a crisis. Every theme traces back to the exact words that created it. You can see inside it, adjust it, and steer it.
Read more about Thematic’s approach.
Step 04 — Prioritize
Not just what customers are saying. What to act on first.
Themes scored by business impact. The Thematic Scoring Agent generates predicted NPS, churn propensity, and effort scores from unstructured feedback, without waiting for survey data. Walk into any executive conversation with a prioritized list and the numbers to back it up.
Learn more about prioritization
Step 05 — Activate
Easily route insights to the right people and tools.
Thematic Predictive Actions route insights to the right team, in the tools they already use. Tickets created. Alerts triggered. Dashboards updated. AI agent workflows connected via open architecture. To improve individual experiences and address root causes.
Learn more about activation
The Transformation
Layer enterprise-grade AI intelligence across your whole organization.
Without Friction.
Data Gymnastics
Outdated taxonomies
Siloed dashboards
Conflicting AI summaries
Manual rework every quarter
Outputs nobody can defend
Insights that don't travel across the business
Intelligence layer
Enterprise-Grade Intelligence
One trusted view of the customer
Every team sees what matters to them
Early warning on emerging issues
Executive-ready evidence on demand
Outmaneuver competition on customer signals
Decisions that hold up under scrutiny
PROVEN IN YOUR INDUSTRY
See How Teams Like Yours Use Thematic
Retail
Financial
Infrastructure
Telco
Marketplaces
Groceries
Entertainment
Thematic transformed our 20,000 monthly verbatims from overwhelming noise into our most strategic asset.
Mark Vaughan, Head of Customer Insights
Our partnership with Thematic helps us get clear customer intelligence to directly inform our product roadmap and corporate strategy. Because everything we do should make our customers lives easier. With the insights, we've seen significant improvements, such as a 30% decrease in contact centre failure.
Michael Sherwood- Head of Customer Experience, Atombank
In quickly getting the voice of the customer from a survey to the CEO’s desk, Thematic is by far the best solution. Thematic is easier to use for refining themes and the model. It’s able to synthesise the impact that themes have on the overall score. It’s simple to triangulate third party data sets and easily compare cohorts of data
Blake James - Executive Manager Research and Insights
Thematic has a great UI and is very intuitive, with not much training required to start using the software. You need to understand what you need to do in order to change performance. Thematic does that.
Melanie Disse - Customer Research Specialist, Vodafone
We wouldn’t be able to get the quality of insights without Thematic. Everyone uses it, understands it and it’s a driver of insights and time savings.
Zach Schendel, Head of Research
Not only did Thematic uncover new actionable insights, but they reduced our time to insight from 7 days to 5 hours - less than 9% of our previous analysis time, while using multiple datasets for analysis.
Head of Customer Insights - APAC Leading Retailer
The Music Instruments industry has a lot of very specific terminology and product information so a lot of other solutions were just not appropriate. It's important that Thematic is customizable, and scaleable too. Armed with Thematic, I can enter discussions with industry partners, knowing where the issues lie.
Young Ly- CEO, Serato
proof in Practice
The results enterprises see when their insights finally work.
Read full report
543%
Return on investment
Forrester Total Economic Impact Study
$652K
Annual savings documented
Forrester Total Economic Impact Study
92%
Faster time to insights
Customer-reported outcome
69%
Fewer contact center calls
Forrester Total Economic Impact Study
The investment casE
Thematic layers on top of your existing stack. Then starts to replace it.
Before adding Thematic to a budget as a new line item, account for what it removes from that same budget.
What you pay for today
Professional services fees for taxonomy reconfiguration
Analyst hours on data wrangling and model maintenance
External consulting costs for periodic model rebuilds
Decisions made on stale, fragmented, undefendable data
What remains with Thematic
A system that gets more valuable the longer it is used
A path to replace legacy tools when you're ready, on your own timeline
Thematic specialists who know your data and your business
Decisions made on evidence that holds up under scrutiny
Forrester Total Economic Impact Study
543% ROI. $652K in annual savings. Payback under six months.
These are not projections. They are the documented outcome of enterprise teams who made the shift.
Read report
Common questions
Answered before the first call.
The questions CX solutions buyers ask most. Answered directly.
If you still have questions, book a call with our sales team using the form below.
We already have text analytics in our current CX platform contract. Why do we need Thematic?
Built-in text analytics are typically rule-based systems built on taxonomies your team defines and maintains. They find what you already know to look for. Thematic works from the bottom up, discovering themes from actual customer language without predefined categories. The result is insights that stay current without quarterly reconfiguration, issues caught before they escalate, and outputs your entire organization trusts rather than questions.
Do we have to replace our existing stack to use this?
No. Thematic deploys on top of your existing infrastructure. No rip-and-replace project. No internal replatforming. Most teams are surfacing insights within days of connecting their data. Many eventually move Thematic into the centre of their stack, but that decision comes from confidence, not obligation.
How is this different from running our feedback through GPT?
GPT can summarise feedback. Thematic builds meaning over time. A GPT summary gives you a confident-sounding output with no way to trace it back to the customer language behind it, no consistency across teams, and no institutional memory when you return next quarter. Thematic builds a versioned, traceable theme model that every analyst can interrogate and every leader can verify. The AI shows its working.
We are building AI agents to automate CX decisions. Does Thematic work with that?
This is exactly where Thematic's architecture matters most. Agents are only as trustworthy as the intelligence layer underneath them. Thematic provides the consistent, traceable foundation that agents need to act from. Without a unified source of customer truth, agents built on fragmented data will produce confident-sounding decisions that nobody can reconcile or defend. Thematic is the layer that makes agentic CX reliable.
How long does implementation actually take?
Most teams produce their first analysis within days of connecting data sources. There is no lengthy professional services engagement, no taxonomy-building workshop, and no model training phase before you see output. Thematic's dedicated onboarding specialists work with your team to configure the platform and validate the first themes against your business context.
How do we justify the cost internally?
Start with what Thematic replaces rather than what it costs. Add up professional services fees for taxonomy maintenance, analyst hours on data wrangling, and any external consulting for model rebuilds. In most cases, Thematic replaces those costs rather than adding to them. The Forrester Total Economic Impact Study validated 543% ROI with payback under 6 months and $652K in annual savings.
What does ongoing maintenance look like?
There is no maintenance cycle in the traditional sense. Thematic's Theming Agent continuously adapts to what customers are actually saying, so the model stays current without quarterly rebuilds or analyst intervention. Your dedicated specialist monitors theme quality and flags anything that needs your attention. The system gets more accurate over time, not less.
Who uses Thematic: just the insights team or the whole business?
Both. The insights team typically owns the platform and the theme model. But Thematic is built so that product, CX, operations, and strategy teams can each access the view that matters to them, without needing the insights team to run a report first. Role-based access means everyone sees what they need, and nothing they do not.
Ready to see what customer intelligence
is supposed to feel like?
Most enterprise implementations are live within days, with no taxonomy rebuilds or professional services engagement, and a dedicated specialist from day one.
First name
Last name
Email address
*
What industry are you in?
*
Select industry
Software/Tech
Retail
Financial Services
Healthcare
Manufacturing
Travel & Hospitality
Automotive
Other
Company size
*
Select company size
Less than 300
300-500
More than 500 employees
What is your seniority level?
*
Select seniority level
Executive (CMO, VP, SVP, CXO)
Director
Manager
Specialist / Analyst / Researcher
Consultant
Student
Other
Book a time
Product
Overview
Pricing
Accuracy
Security & Privacy
Security & Compliance
Product Changelog
Support
Knowledge Base
Integrations
Thematic API
Login
Resources
Blog
Community
Webinars & eBooks
Case Studies
Tools
NPS Calculator
Thematic vs Clarabridge
Thematic vs TextIQ
Thematic vs Medallia
Thematic vs Chattermill
Thematic vs Kapiche
Guides
Sentiment Analysis Guide
How Thematic Analysis Software works
How to Analyze Surveys
How to Analyze Customer and Product Reviews
How to Code Qualitative Data
How to Code and Analyze Open-Ended Questions
Company
About Us
Science Behind Thematic
Contact Us
Privacy Terms
Terms of service
© Copyright Thematic Analysis Inc.
By clicking
"Accept"
, you agree to the
    storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site
    usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. View our
Privacy Policy
for more information.
We use cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. You can opt out at any time in
Preferences
, or read our
Privacy Policy
.
Preferences
Reject
Accept