{"source_id": "qualtrics-pressganey", "url": "https://www.qualtrics.com/news/qualtrics-acquires-press-ganey-forsta/", "final_url": "https://www.qualtrics.com/news/qualtrics-acquires-press-ganey-forsta/", "http_status": 200, "retrieved_at": "2026-09-19T03:26:18.394104+00:00", "sha256": "05b1b04be98ecd8b0c338250a6b7573a727053977021f2eac91fa9611b5a831d", "content_type": "text/html; charset=UTF-8"}

Qualtrics Acquires Healthcare Experience Leader Press Ganey Forsta
Skip to main content
Newsroom
Qualtrics Acquires Press Ganey Forsta
Qualtrics Acquires Healthcare Experience Leader Press Ganey Forsta for $6.75 Billion: Expands Experience Management (XM) Category Leadership Creating World’s Largest AI Dataset for Human Experiential Context Ever Assembled
May 18, 2026
Qualtrics
Adding Press Ganey Forsta, the trusted standard for healthcare experience, to the Qualtrics XM dataset combines decades of proprietary healthcare data and regulatory systems with the leading XM AI & data platform to supercharge human experience management for all industries.
AI is redefining patient expectations in real time, and healthcare systems are racing to close the gap between clinical excellence and modern consumer-grade experiences.
Qualtrics + Press Ganey Forsta gives healthcare leaders the power to anticipate patient needs before they escalate, transforming healthcare experience from reactive measurement into predictive action.
The largest tech acquisition in Utah history marks a defining moment for the future of AI, healthcare, and Experience Management.
Share
Copied To Clipboard!
PROVO, Utah — May 18, 2026 — Today Qualtrics announced the completion of its acquisition of Press Ganey Forsta for $6.75 billion USD. Qualtrics created the Experience Management category to deliver legendary experiences for organizations and the people they serve.  The acquisition expands the world’s largest proprietary human Experience Management (XM) AI & data platform with the scale and depth of the world’s largest healthcare experience dataset.
The Experience Gap problem
The experience gap is the delta between what patients expect versus what organizations can deliver. Life is moving at the speed of AI and expectations have never been higher.
Patients no longer compare their healthcare experience to the hospital across town, but to the best hospitality, travel, dining, concierge, and digital experiences they have anywhere in their lives. Now, people walk into healthcare systems informed, researched, empowered, anxious, and expectation-hungry with an AI doctor in their pocket.
“AI permanently changed what people expect from every experience in their lives,” said Jason Maynard, CEO of Qualtrics. “That’s why the future will be won in the Experience Gap. Leaders want to deliver intelligent, responsive, and predictable human experiences. In the age of AI, experience is now the differentiator in every industry, and for the first time ever that problem can be solved in healthcare. The rich data and context intelligence we are building raises the standard for what experience management can do across every industry we serve.”
Experience Management is the required context for human-first AI experiences
The Qualtrics proprietary XM AI and data platform provides the human understanding and contextual inference that large language models alone lack. This transforms proprietary experiential signals into trusted, outcome-driven experiences in every moment that matters.
Press Ganey Forsta is the trusted standard for healthcare experience. More than 41,000 healthcare facilities rely on Press Ganey Forsta measurement systems, including the majority of U.S. hospitals. This proprietary advantage is based on decades of patient voice data, deep relationships with provider, payer, and post-acute leaders. This unique combination is purpose-built for the clinical, regulatory, and operational realities of care delivery.
The combination of Qualtrics and Press Ganey Forsta enables healthcare providers and payers to benefit from the most robust and complete human experience set of experiential data in the world.
This dataset creates the engine for a new generation of Al-driven synthetic experience intelligence systems capable of simulating outcomes, predicting human needs and behaviors, and orchestrating more personalized experiences at unprecedented scale.
The future of healthcare will be defined by both clinical excellence, and the ability to orchestrate connected, whole-person experiences across the entire spectrum of healthcare, recovery, behavioral health, preventative care and wellness.
With the acquisition of Press Ganey Forsta the Experience Management dataset expands significantly with the inclusion of an entirely unique and broad dimension of data around the most important element of every human’s life, their health.
For Qualtrics customers in financial services, public sector, technology, retail, hospitality, and beyond, this means a more powerful platform — more data, more context, and more precise AI — in service of the same outcomes they rely on Qualtrics to deliver today.
Leaders across healthcare support the combination of Qualtrics and Press Ganey Forsta
"The opportunity ahead for healthcare is not simply more data or more AI, it is the ability to turn insight into timely, human-centered action,” said
David Entwistle, President and CEO of Stanford Health Care.
"As the industry evolves, organizations that succeed will be those that pair proven technology with deep expertise in patient and care team experience to drive meaningful improvements in care delivery, trust, and outcomes."
“At Carilion, our focus is always delivering safe, high-quality care and the best care experience for our patients,” said
Steve Arner, President and CEO of Carilion Clinic
. “To meet evolving community needs, health systems need to understand what patients and caregivers are experiencing in real time and respond thoughtfully. The combination of Qualtrics and Press Ganey Forsta will help identify timely insights to support informed decisions, stronger connections, and ultimately a better care experience for our team and the patients who depend on us.”
"Our unwavering commitment has always been to deliver the highest quality, safest and most compassionate care for patients. The combination of Qualtrics and Press Ganey will enable our organization to seamlessly bridge the gap between patient experience and clinical outcomes.  We are excited to leverage these unified capabilities to surface real time insights, act faster and continuously elevate our standard of care,” said
Stephen J. Motew, M.D., President and CEO of UF Health
.
“This combination brings together two dynamic companies that provide deep AI-powered analytic insights and drive improvement, ultimately accelerating our goal to reach zero harm and build resiliency in the workforce, with the benefactors being our patients, families, clinicians and team members,” said
John Couris, President and CEO of Tampa General Hospital
.
“Qualtrics’ acquisition of Press Ganey Forsta reflects a broader industry shift toward unifying experience and operational data to power AI-driven decision-making," said
Keith Kirkpatrick, VP & Research Director with The Futurum Group
. "By combining healthcare-specific benchmarking and provider data with its XM platform, healthcare organizations will be well positioned to transition from relying solely on retrospective insights to leveraging real-time, outcome-oriented actions that improve both patient and provider experiences.”
About The Company
Together, Qualtrics and Press Ganey Forsta are the world’s leading Experience Management (XM) platform, helping organizations understand, predict, and improve human outcomes across customer, employee, and patient experiences. By uniting Qualtrics’ leadership in Experience Management with Press Ganey Forsta’s Human Experience (HX) Platform, the combined company enables organizations to turn experience insights into strategic advantage across healthcare, financial services, hospitality, retail, technology, and other industries worldwide.
Tags:
Customer Service
Employee Engagement
Customer Journey
Healthcare
✕
#
#
close
Request a demo
Thank you
We'll contact you shortly
First Name
Last Name
Company
Job Title
Email
Phone Number
- Select -
Afghanistan
Åland Islands
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, The Republic of the
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Curaçao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern Territories
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City State)
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau, China
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Réunion
Romania
Russia, excluding Crimea
Rwanda
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin (French part)
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten (Dutch part)
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine, excluding Crimea
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
United States Minor Outlying Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela
Viet Nam
Virgin Islands, British
Virgin Islands, U.S.
Wallis and Futuna
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Country
Lead Comments
Yes, I would like to receive marketing communications regarding Qualtrics products, services, and events
Privacy Optin
By providing this information, you agree that we may process your personal data in accordance with our
Privacy Statement
.
Submit
×
close